My dear Friends and comrades
I thank first our Italian hosts
not just because they organized this new session of the forum for the plan B
but perhaps more for having provoked
the spectacular failure of Matteo Renzi
and to prepare the next one
for the next referendum that will be organised shortly on the base of
of the the claims of the central labour body
I thank the particpants I kindly asked you to excuse
the disorder created by the French Presidential Election compaign
in the way our work is progressing
You may know or to be fair, you might not know
our meeting is part of the French Presidential Election Campaign. Why?
Because, at the time we are speaking now 50% of the electorate in France
which is something we never seen before
do not know either if they will go and vote
and if so, whom they will vote for
So we have a very volatile situation
in which each political act counts in the way the judgement
of the citizen will form
I thank especially the French media that made the trip to assist our meeting
to speak about it.
We have decided to have our meeting
here in Rome this meeting here in Rome because it is a symbolic place
at the time of the 60th birthday of the signature of the treaty.
For my part, I went to fill myself with energy this morning
by going on the ancient Roman Forum,
next to the rostra, the tribunes of the people
and the first political strike in history, (the Secessio plebis ) when the people, in 494bc
when the pleb simply abandoned the city en masse to go to the Auentinus Mons,
and leaving the patrician order to themselves to force them to realize that without the plebs, they were nothing
And now here I am among you.
When the Treaty of Rome was proposed
Already many voices, and among the most eminent in France, pointed out
That it had a content that would lead to damages.
This content is the central idea that the market
Must be the regulator of human activities.
If the market becomes the regulator of human affairs,
Then there is no longer any general human interest, there is only the law of the exchange of goods
And the law of the exchange of goods implies
That they always cost less, that is to say that the workers and the employees are always more exploited
And nature more and more destroyed.
Basically, this long history of the construction of the European Union as it results
Of the Treaty of Rome has experienced ups and downs.
It can not be said that there were no magnificent opportunities present
In the course of this story
they have been missed, especially when the socio-democratic governments
Were mostly in Europe before collapsing miserably
In a generalized system of large coalitions between the socio-democratic parties and the right, making the confession
Because there is no difference in their vision of the future
And in this way, this system of grand coalition
Has resulted in a political paralysis such that the extreme right everywhere has gained a foothold
And know the developments we are experiencing
And which are a threat to democracy in each of our countries.
Europe entered the end of the cycle,
But the European idea does not belong to the European Union,
It belongs to the people who first formulated it in the past in hope
Always renewed
The fact that by cooperating ever more closely
There would be a process of social harmonization from the top,
By cooperating more and more closely, they would repel the threat of war.
But what we have before us is exactly the opposite
And we do not need to invoke ideological reasons
To speak about the end of the European Union, it is enough to see the facts,
This end is begun. The Brexit is the signal [video break]
But the signature of CETA
Is a second signal
Extremely violent because what is CETA?
In itself, a violation of democracy.
This treaty, with free trade with Canada, will apply even before any parliament
Representative of the people expressed themselves on the subject
And second, it creates a set of standards
Social, environmental
Which will impose itself on all future developments of the Union, in other words
The European Union, whatever she says, whatever she wants,
Will never go further than what is in CETA
Because in international law, a treaty
Has a value superior to the national law consequently
The CETA has a legal value superior to everything that the European Union
Could decide on the standards that are established by CETA
So CETA is somehow the signal of the end of a part
Of the evolvement project of the European Union.
And finally there was in this context, after the Brexit, after the CETA,
After all this violence against Cyprus or against Greece,
Where a revolver was put on the peoples' temples by depriving them of the monetary circulation
To oblige them to capitulate,
There is this summit that you saw at Versailles, which has aggravated everything,
Because all of a sudden, the Europe of 28
Has seen 4 countries
Deciding for all the others.
And again when you say 4, you get the impression that there are two that hide behind the other two,
And when you say two, you get the impression that there just one
Who was hiding behind the other three.
So much, that this Show aggravated the divisions in Europe, provoked
Legitimate protests by those who feel equal in law
And which were removed from the summit of Versailles.
All this came over a rickety and half-collapsed building,
The mad logic of European budgetary treaties:
Prohibition of social harmonization, prohibition of fiscal harmonization
Had the main result of throwing the nations one against the other
In competition while pretending to build a union.
We have all become competitors
In a competition cynically organized, according to the confession of M. Barroso,
For each country to pay
Its structural adjustment on the backs of others,
And as it is significant to see that at the competition
Social dumping, tax dumping,
Has given himself as President M.Junker,
That one can consider as the first cheater of Europe
Since it was under his authority that Luxembourg Has given itself the right
To create tax favors that have been a real hold-up on everything else
Of public treasures in Europe.
It is in this context that the logic of a grand coalition
The Social Democratic parties, which are often the first party
Coming from this long and old history of social progress
Allied with the right, absolutely strangled any possibility of expression outside its ranks.
The result, as we have it before us, everywhere
The narrowest and most limited nationalism,
Everywhere movements that are a incredible political regression, intellectual and democratic
It is against this slope that we are heading
And here are the 4 important
Have decided to embark on a leak forward
where the Juncker plan
Is the framework, maybe you know,
But maybe you are like us in France.
We in France we never know anything,
Some MEPs try to say, to inform
But the great number knows nothing,
It has not been told that Mr.Junker has proposed 4 plans
To redevelop Europe:
Firstly, we continue as before,
He was obliged to say that, he could not say that before it was less than bad,
He could not say if we were forced to think about a new plan it is because the previous one
Has failed miserably.
Second plan: we will only do the single market,
What a beautiful European ideal!
But they themselves are alarmed by saying if we only do the single market
We will be forced to go overboard two-thirds of the decisions we have already made in the past.
And even Mr.Junker comes to say
"If we only do the single market there will be an environmental hazard".
Third plan: we will do less but better, the famous formula of Lenin,
Applied to M. Junker, is rather funny,
Because if you can do better by doing less, let's do it, why didn't we do it?
And finally, the last plan is this multi-speed Europe
Which is sold everywhere as a novelty,
Something that has just been discovered,
But which is an old age that we French know as it was proposed more than 10 years ago and that anyway,
it's already the reality.
There is a multi-speed Europe.
The euro accounts for only 19 out of 28 countries.
The Schengen agreement does not include all the countries of the European Union,
And I add that on the military plan, which has become the great new European idea,
There is a neutral country, Austria, which will never participate in any military coalition.
So that Europe with several speeds is a presentation in a new packaging of what?
The fact that the reactionary heart of Europe
Represented by Mrs Merkel's Government
Wants to give itself new means of coercion,
System around a central core
Who will continue to defend fiercly
The transnational capital strategy embodied in
The budgetary treaty and the European Mechanismof Financial Stability .
Their multi-speed Europe is just a strategy to maintain a rickety building
Which everywhere receives the blows of peoples, it is only that.
That not one of you has any doubt about their intentions
And I hope the French will understand it quickly.
It is interesting, since I speak to you as a French
To see how the social democracy which has succeeded in this round of power
To invest in some way two candidates
On the European level. One is Mr. Macron, who copies
almost word per word the directives of the European Commission.
I know it may seem incredible to you but we who knows the texts
Nous avons retrouvé tel quel les réclamations de la commission européenne contre la France
Comme programme présidentiel d'un des candidats.
If anyone ever deserves to be called "the commission's candidate" it is him
And the other candidate of the Social Democracy proposes
The constitution of a parliament of the euro area and of a eurozone economic government,
Adding that as soon as 50% of the peoples of the nations would agree, it would apply.
They do not tell us what they will do to those who are not in the Eurozone but who are reputed to be just as European as the others,
Nor of what will do this second parliament and this sixth president of the parliament
In the midst of all this mob
Presidents, assemblies, councils which, at bottom, do not change anything, since they themselves have said
That their Assembly and Government would not repeal the treaties but would complete them.
How can we complement a treaty that bans social harmonization
pretend to do social harmonization?
How can we supplement a treaty that forbids tax harmonization by proposing tax harmonization?
All this is incoherent! But this inconsistency is a distress signal
And I would like to repeat the expression of the beginning of my speech:
The European idea, the peaceful idea and social progress does not belong to the European Union and its current leaders,
Who are incapable of managing this idea, and who have led it to the catastrophe towards which we are heading. Double catastrophe.
Social catastrophe and disaster in the field of peace.
It is on this question that I come to my conclusion.
Plan A is in our mind,
Whatever the diversity of our situations in each of our countries,
Diversity that is of extreme importance,
since national elections do not take place all the same day throughout Europe,
It is impossible to have a progressive European strategy other than in the framework of the national struggle
And therefore of the capacity we have to mobilize our entire people
Towards a political objective.
The Revolutionary Strategy of the Citizen Revolution relies
On the democratic will of each of our peoples, and necessarily one after the other.
This is why we have discussed the idea of plan B
And we called our forum the "Plan B forum" exactly like others
Had called their forum in Latin America the "forum of San Paolo", even if they met only once in San Paolo,
An assembly which at first made the important and the powerful smile,
But an assembly in which 11 governments have since been recruited. I form the wish that we find in this room
The next 11 governments of the European Union.
But be assured that we are at least working to guarantee the next "our home".
Plan A is basically what we have in common,
We no longer want to continue a Europe where social harmonization is forbidden,
This is why our first common demand for Plan A
Is social harmonization from the top, because there is social harmonization
Which is being done from the bottom.
We do not want a Europe where there is no tax harmonization
Because that is what allows companies to move their
The taxation will be the lowest, that is, the contribution to the common good.
And so we want tax harmonization to be possible.
These two points oblige us to say that we must break with the present treaties because these two points are in the present treaties,
It is not a purely ideological matter
Although one has the right to have ideological visions)
But it is a practical and practical matter. We want to get out of treaties that take two absurd dispositions
That ruin and kill the Europe as an idea
At the very heart of its setting in motion
And what is Plan B?
What is plan B? In spite of all our differences on the question?
Plan B is first and foremost the fruit of history.
In this rostrum there is Zoé, who was the President of the Greek Parliament
And who maintained her loyalty to the engagement of a fight on which she had been elected.
What happened ?
Isolated Greece faced
Other countries and in particular unbearable arrogance
The government of Mrs Merkel, her violence, her brutality
Through the unacceptable statements of M.Schäuble
Greece because it was isolated, because we were not able to organize together the movement that would have helped to support it,
Was put in the situation where its leaders thought
That by doing good manners they would obtain good results.
The discussion has ended on this subject, and what are the results: none.
Therefore the method was worth nothing, the only one that is worth something is to have a plan B.
If they do not give up for a  Plan A then we will move to Plan B. What is Plan B?
What is Plan B?
Plan B is the plan that I have just presented as plan A, if the others do not want it then we do it anyway
Between those who agree.
Therefore Plan B is an internationalist plan.
It is not a nationalist plan where everyone goes home
And manages with its national situation,
It's an internationalist plan and that's where we play a part we in this room,
Such as we are.
We play a role because we are prefiguring this plan B.
People who want to know what Plan B is, what's the internationalism of the Plan B  they just have to come to you,
You each in your country, or you on these benches.
Plan B is Plan A maintained
As we imagine it, as we want it,
Not ideology, but because it corresponds to the interests
Of our peoples, and this places us in the perspective that is ours
That's with what I want to finish.
We made Europe for social welfare, we thought, we believed it,
Our people believe it,
And this formidable adhesion which is preserved in our peoples for the European idea has deep roots
Which is not as we said fear. No,
Our peoples are committed to peace,
Our peoples are more reasonable than the rulers,
They know that Europe is the womb of all wars.
They know that all the world wars were born in Europe
And that the scars on our borders
Are still fresh in many places
And that  a false movement wil be enough to reopen them.
Our people know that peace
Is a construction that requires vigilance, in application
And not the stupid casualness we see in power today.
Yes peace is threatened in Europe,
It is threatened because the USA
Play an extremely disturbing game
Which it is no longer clear whether its main objective is to divide
Europeans or to confront Russia
Designated as an adversary.
We know that we do not want war in Europe.
We want peace, and for that
We can not accept that a country is designated as an adversary by nature.
For us French, in our deep history,
Whatever the regime in place in Russia,
That it was that of the Tsar under the Third Republic (ours)
Or that it was that of Stalin in the time of General de Gaulle,
France had always  Russia as a partner
It is geography and history that dictate this obligation, and consequently
We must not accept going to war as we are doing.
Sweden reinstated compulsory military service
batteries of missiles anti-missiles have been installed in Poland, which are now being met by missile batteries on the Russian side.
Climbing has begun, it's our role
To do everything to prevent it.
There must therefore be a conference on security and peace in Europe
Because the collapse of the Soviet empire was not discussed anywhere, it was abandoned to the law of the strongest.
And during all these years,
NATO leaders have never stopped lying to their Russian partner, it should not be surprising
That afterwards they too began to make demonstrations of strength.
Plan B is more than ever the plan of peace
Against the temptations of war.
It's a pitty that the President of the French Republic, Mr Francois Hollande, said
That Europe could revive
As a Europe of defense.
Europe of defense? against who ?
To do what ? Which Europe of defense?
It does not exist ! Europe of defense is the Europe of war.
And we want to build a Europe of peace. It is on these words that I shall finish. My friends,
I know that when the time comes,
If the ballot boxes are favorable,
To us in France in this situation so changing, so volatile
When the time comes you will come to the rescue,
Because none of us can think tomorrow
To govern any state
Without the support of others.
But the support of others is primarily the support of the people,
It is the people who count, they must be the sovereign.
And so powerful that France is, and it is,
It is nothing if the other peoples
Do not recognize in the word that it bears
Something that concerns them very directly.
France, governed by us, would be France of Plan B,
It would be yours, it is universal France. Thank you.